# ArchipelagoOoA
Updates to and maintenance of APWorld for The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Ages.

This is a re-hosting of the [code originally developed by SenPierre](https://github.com/SenPierre/ArchipelagoOoA). I did not fork from that repo because there were some compatability issues with Archipelago 0.6.2+ which made it so that users that used
Archipelago 0.6.2 or newer were not able to use the apworld to play The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Ages Randomizer. Besides, work on adding new options was already started on this repo anyway at the time of forking this one which was posted on Discord by Ishigh1 on the Archipelago Discord Server.

## Options I am thinking about addding.
*  Shuffle Old Men - In Seasons, there are mutiple small trees that you can burn with Ember Seeds which reveals a staircase where you can go inside and either get rupees from the old man or the old man takes the rupees, all of that from fixing the door. As far as I know with Ages, there are two trees in the same spot of Rolling Ridge Past & Present where you burn them and both reveal a staircase leading to the exact same old man.
* Secret Locations - In The Legend of Zelda: Oralce of Ages, there are locations that give out items along with secret codes that you can pass onto The Legend of Zelda: Oracle of Seasons. Maybe at some point, we could link those two games together in a randomizer as well. Right now, it's not possible to do so.
* Linked Hero's Cave - In Ages, there is another cave next to the maku path cave in the present that only gets unlocked when you play the linked game.
* Shuffle Time Portals - In Seasons Archipelago Randomizer, there is an option to shuffle Subrosia Portals so that it can take you to locations where that portal wouldn't normally take you. Well with Time Portals, i figured why not do the same thing with them. This is going to take alot of logical thinking and testing to get inplemented right for casual players as there is usually two time portals open at the start of the game with the rest of them being blocked off by the harp. (Maybe I could leave those two vanilla and have the other ones shuffled or something)
* Shuffle Business Scrubs - Just like in Seasons, there are business scrubs that sell items to you for a certain price. Just like in Seasons Archipelago Randomizer, we can carry that over.
* Placed Essences - In Seasons Archipelago Randomizer, you can set how many essences are placed in the world. Well with Ages, I figured why not apply ths same logic as well. This will make some dungeons barren while the Required Essences option is set which makes more sense so that the user isn't just going into a dungeon with junk items and getting an essense at the end. This will cause them to get more essenses than what they need.
* Shuffle Essences - In Seasons Archipelago Randomizer, when that option is set, Essences will be placed anywhere in the world instead of dungeons.
* Exclude Dungeons Without Essence - This option will make dungeons without the essences barren by filling it with junk items (and locking the user out of the dungeon anyway with unreacable keys) just like in the Seasons Archipelago Randomizer.
* Show Dungeons With Essence - When the Exclude Dungeons Without Essence is enabled, you will see what dungeons have an essence on the minimap, making it easier for you to find out which dungeons are barren just like in the Seasons Archipelago Randomizer.
* Deterministic Gasha Locations - In Seasons and Ages, when you plant a gacha seed and kill 40 enemies, a tree will pop up that you can hit using a weapon of your choice and you will get an item from that tree. In the Archipelago Randomizer of Seasons, you could talk to the wife of the man NPC that lives in the red house that has a spot to grow a gacha seed below it in Horron Village. She will tell you how many gacha nuts you need to plant so that you know that you're not planting too many seeds and also getting items in the process. I am thinking of having the gacha guy in the past tell you how many seeds you need to grow in order to get good items in it. that can happen after the gacha guy gives you a gacha seed, similar to Seasons when you talk to the man NPC.
* Gacha Nut Requirement - When you kill a certain amount of enemies, a gacha tree is supposed to grow after you plant it. this would allow you to get an item from that tree in the Seasons Archipelago Randomizer.
* Randomize Fairies Woods - in Ages, you are required to get a flute for your chosen animal conpanion in order to get to Symmetry City in the present. But to do that though, you will need to go to Fairies Woods for a second time where the bunnies will randomize the path again. From there, you will need to find your animal conpanion. Once you found it, you are given a flute for that animal for your effort. I am thinking of putting that check in sequence so that users have another fun way of playing the randomizer. It won't be too hard, it will just be interesting.
* Enforce Potion in Shop - In both Ages and Seasons, when you run out of Hearts, if you bought/got a potion, it will automaticly kick on and refresh your life. This option is already a thing in the Seasons Archipelago Randomizer, but this apworld does not have that option, so I am putting that in the works for this exact reason.
* Randomize AI - In Seasons, in the month of April, there would be an option where users can randomize how an enemy behaves around link. For example, a moblin could be shooting out balls whereas a knight could act as a moblin, and other possibilites like that. I think this will make things go crazy but I think that it will be really funny to introduce the same thing in Ages as well.
* Include Cross Items - In Seasons Archipelago Randomizer, you would need the Ages Rom in order to include items such as a switch hook, bombchus, seed shooter, and etc. This can make progression easier depending on the type of item a user got. I am considering adding the same thing to Ages except a Seasons Rom would be needed to include things such as Roc's Cape (useful), Rod of Seasons (useless but can kill some enemies), and Seed Slingshot (not as percise as the seed shooter). There are items such as a magnetic glove included at one point in the OG Ages Randomizer, however, it is no use so that won't be included.

## Current New Options that are functional that are not in the original apworld repo.
* duplicate seed trees - In Ages, there are 8 seed trees and 5 seed types. This causes duplicate trees to occur just like in Seasons. In order to give users a freedom to customize what trees are duplicates, this option was added. This was created by [Glan9](https://github.com/Glan9) on github, not myself. So please don't give me credit for this option.

## Building
In order to build this code for usage with Archipelago, you need to follow these steps:
1. Download the source code by clicking on Code -> Download ZIP
2. Extract the zip file where you will see a folder called ArchipelagoOoA-<BRANCH_NAME> for which BRANCH_NAME will be main as that's the current branch this source code is on.
3. Rename that folder to tloz_ooa
4. Right click on the new folder and go to Compress To -> ZIP File.
5. Once compressed, you will replace .zip with .apworld, If you don't see the filename extension, go to View -> Show -> File name extensions. This will reveal the extension for the filename that we are trying to work with.
6. Double click on the apworld and Archipelago will install the apworld onto it's folder. You can also put the apworld file inside your Archipelago Folder -> custom_worlds folder. That method works as well as Archipelago is essentially doing that as well when you open the apworld with it.

## Want to colloborate?
Here are two ways to get in!
1. (Something most developers prefer and I'm fine with it): Fork this repository, create any changes you want, test your changes, and then send a PR to this repository explaining how your it will improve the apworld along with videos and screenshots of testing being done (If you don't have any of that, that's fine. I don't mind testing things myself, but my recomendation of you doing that saves me time).
2. DM me on discord (josephalt7000) and provide me with your GitHub Name. I will add it to my collobrators list with your prefered settings. Your options are read (default role if you choose option 1), triage (improvement from read this time you can manage issues and PR's), write, maintain (not as powerful as write but hey you now get to manage repo settings along with things mentioned in the traige and read options), and admin (you are basically the god of the repo at that point). Once i've added you, you will get an email invitation to this repo that is only valid for one week. If after one week you can't get it, please remind me on my discord DM that your invitation has expired and I'll add you again. Please don't be doing this repetively and just accept the invite. You chose to get invited to the repo and your invite expiring and you not saying anything tells me that you changed your mind unless you tell me otherwiese.
Thought I was done there? Well there are some requirements that you need to meet in order to colloborate:
* You need to know Python. This apworld was built for Archipelago using that language.
* You need to understand the innerworkings of an Archipelago APWorld. You may start learning [here](https://github.com/ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago/blob/main/docs/apworld%20specification.md).
* You need your own legally dumped Oracle of Ages ROM either for playtesting or a full randomizer walkthrough. I cannot legally provide you with a ROM if you don't have one, sorry.
* You need Archipelago v0.5.1 or newer installed in order to test this apworld (I recommend cloning this repo into the lib/worlds folder inside Archipelago that way you don't have to repackage the world every time during testing. And you can just commit your changes while not having to worry about repeating the same steps repetively).
